== About ==
This project is used to develop applications for stm32 - ST's ARM Cortex-M3 MCUs, using cmake, GCC, newlib (libc) and STM32Fxxx Standard Peripherals Library.

Requirements:
* cmake >= 2.8
* GCC toolchain with newlib.
* STM32F0xx Standard Peripherals Library for STM32F0 family
* STM32F10x Standard Peripherals Library for STM32F1 family
* STM32F2xx Standard Peripherals Library for STM32F2 family
* STM32F4 DSP and Standard Peripherals Library for STM32F4 family
Project contains:
* CMake common toolchain file, that configures cmake to use arm toolchain.
* CMake family-specific toolchain file, that configures family-specific parameters.
* CMake projects that builds CMSIS and Standard Peripherals Library into static libraries.
* CMake modules to find and configure CMSIS ans StdPeriphLib libraries.
* CMake project template.
* Example projects
** blinky - blink LED using timers and PWM.
** newlib - show date from RTC using uart and libc functions from newlib

== Building & Installing ==
First of all you need to configure toolchain and libraries, you can do this by editing gcc_stm32.cmake or (better way) pass it throught command line.
Variables for toolchain:
* TOOLCHAIN_PREFIX - where toolchain is located, '''default''': /usr
* TARGET_TRIPLET - toolchain target triplet, '''default''': arm-none-eabi
* STM32_FAMILY - STM32 family (F0, F1, F4, etc.) currently, F0, F1, F2 and F4 family are supported.
'''Note:''' If STM32_CHIP variable is set, STM32_FAMILY is optional.

Variables for CMSIS and StdPeriphLib:
* STM32F0_StdPeriphLib_DIR - path to STM32F0xx Standard Peripherals Library '''default''': /opt/STM32F0xx_StdPeriph_Lib_V1.3.1
* STM32F1_StdPeriphLib_DIR - path to STM32F10x Standard Peripherals Library '''default''': /opt/STM32F10x_StdPeriph_Lib_V3.5.0
* STM32F2_StdPeriphLib_DIR - path to STM32F2xx Standard Peripherals Library '''default''': /opt/STM32F2xx_StdPeriph_Lib_V1.1.0
* STM32F4_StdPeriphLib_DIR - path to STM32F4 DSP and Standard Peripherals Library '''default''': /opt/STM32F4xx_DSP_StdPeriph_Lib_V1.3.0
* USE_ASSERT - Use internal asserts in Standard Peripherals Library.

=== Build CMSIS and Standard Peripherals Library ===
In cmsis folder:
 cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../gcc_stm32.cmake -DSTM32_FAMILY=F1 -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path_to_toolchain>/arm-none-eabi/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
 make && make install
In stdperiph folder
 cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=../gcc_stm32.cmake -DCMAKE_MODULE_PATH=<path_to_cmake_folder_of_this_project>/Modules -DSTM32_FAMILY=F1 -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=<path_to_toolchain>/arm-none-eabi/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
 make && make install
'''Note:''' For building for STM32F0 family, change -DSTM32_FAMILY=F1 to -DSTM32_FAMILY=F0
'''Note:''' For building for STM32F2 family, change -DSTM32_FAMILY=F1 to -DSTM32_FAMILY=F2
'''Note:''' For building for STM32F4 family, change -DSTM32_FAMILY=F1 to -DSTM32_FAMILY=F4

'''Note:''' You can use different CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX, but than you'll have to configure cmake search paths when using cmake modules. You may specify an additional search path with -DEXTRA_FIND_PATH=<path-to-search>

'''Note:''' To prevent header collision file "misc.h" from Standard Peripherals Library will be installed as stm32f0xx_misc.h / stm32f10x_misc.h / stm32f2xx_misc.h / stm32f4xx_misc.h

== Usage ==
After building you need to copy cmake modules in cmake's modules path, or just set CMAKE_MODULE_PATH in project. 
Template project can be found in stm32-template folder.

=== Configure === 
Common usage:
 cmake -DSTM32_CHIP=<chip> -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<path_to_gcc_stm32.cmake> -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug <path_to_source_dir>
Where <nowiki><chip></nowiki> - stm32 chip name (e.g. STM32F100C8, STM32F407IG). 
This command will generate Makefile for project.
Scripts will try to detected chip parameters (type, flash/ram size) from chip name. 
You can set this parameters directly using following cmake variables:
* STM32_CHIP_TYPE - family-depended chip type. Global variable STM32_CHIP_TYPES contains list of valid types for current family (e.g. for F1 family: HD, HD_VL, MD, MD_VL, LD, LD_VL, CL, XL)
* STM32_FLASH_SIZE - chip flash size (e.g. 64K)
* STM32_RAM_SIZE - chip RAM size (e.g. 4K)

For using with Eclipse CDT:
 cmake -DSTM32_CHIP=<chip> -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<path_to_gcc_stm32.cmake> -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -G "Eclipse CDT4 - Unix Makefiles" <path_to_source_dir>
For release build:
 cmake -DSTM32_CHIP=<chip> -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=<path_to_gcc_stm32.cmake> -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release <path_to_source_dir>

=== Build ===
 make
To build .hex:
 make <project name>.hex
or .bin:
 make <project name>.bin

=== Linker script variables ===
Next cmake variables are useful for linker tuning:
* STM32_FLASH_ORIGIN - Start address of flash (default: 0x08000000)
* STM32_RAM_ORIGIN - Start address of RAM (default: 0x20000000)
* STM32_STACK_ADDRESS - Address of stack bottom (default: RAM_ORIGIN + RAM_SIZE)
* STM32_FLASH_SIZE - Flash size (default: from chip name)
* STM32_RAM_SIZE - RAM size (default: from chip name)
* STM32_MIN_STACK_SIZE - Minimum stack size for error detection at link-time (default: 512 bytes)
* STM32_MIN_HEAP_SIZE - Minimum heap size for error detection at link-time (default: 0 bytes)

=== Useful cmake macros ===
* STM32_GET_CHIP_TYPE(CHIP CHIP_TYPE) - gets chip type (HD, MD, etc.) from chip name.
* STM32_GET_CHIP_PARAMETERS(CHIP FLASH_SIZE RAM_SIZE) - gets chip ram/flash size from chip name.
* STM32_SET_CHIP_DEFINITIONS(TARGET CHIP_TYPE) - sets chip family and type-specific compiler flags for target.
* STM32_SET_FLASH_PARAMS(TARGET ...) - sets chip flash/ram parameters for targer.
* STM32_SET_TARGET_PROPERTIES(TARGET) - sets all needed parameters and compiler flags for target. 
* STM32_GENERATE_LIBRARIES(NAME SOURCES LIBRARIES) - generates libraries for all chip types in family. Resulting libraries stored in LIBRARIES and have names in ${NAME}_${FAMILY}_${CHIP_TYPE} format.

=== Notes about using this package under Windows ===

This package is successfully used to build STM32 applications under Windows using freely available Sourcery_CodeBench_Lite_for_ARM_EABI toolchain. The recommended setup is:

* Install [Sourcery_Codebench_Lite http://www.mentor.com/embedded-software/sourcery-tools/sourcery-codebench/overview]
* Install minimal MinGW to have properly functioning 'make.exe'
* Prepare initial CMake cache contents ''build_settings'' setting paths proper for your installation:
{{{
SET(CMAKE_MAKE_PROGRAM c:/MinGW/bin/mingw32-make.exe CACHE FILEPATH "Make program")
SET(CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE d:/Projects/lib/stm32-cmake/gcc_stm32.cmake CACHE FILEPATH "Toolchain file")
SET(TOOLCHAIN_PREFIX "c:/MentorGraphics/Sourcery_CodeBench_Lite_for_ARM_EABI" CACHE PATH "Toolchain prefix")

SET(STM32_CHIP "STM32F030R8" CACHE STRING "stm32 chip")

SET(STM32F2_StdPeriphLib_DIR "d:/Projects/lib/STM32F2xx_StdPeriph_Lib_V1.1.0" CACHE PATH "StdPeriph path")
SET(STM32F0_StdPeriphLib_DIR "d:/Projects/lib/STM32F0xx_StdPeriph_Lib_V1.3.1" CACHE PATH "StdPeriph path")

SET(CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX "d:/Projects/lib/bin" CACHE PATH "Install prefix")
SET(CMAKE_MODULE_PATH "d:/Projects/lib/stm32-cmake/cmake/Modules" CACHE PATH "CMake modules path")
SET(EXTRA_FIND_PATH "${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}" CACHE PATH "Build root path")
SET(CMAKE_ECLIPSE_VERSION "4.3" CACHE STRING "Eclipse version")
}}}
* And now you go (again, use proper paths):
{{{
"C:\Program Files (x86)\CMake 2.8\bin\cmake.exe" -G "Eclipse CDT4 - MinGW Makefiles" -C ../../build/build_settings -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug ../source/
}}}
